# Mood-Based Music Recommendation Engine / Song Success Predicting Engine
### Jason Lei and Andres Soto
### Tools: Python, Flask, pandas

### Project description
While reading about available open-source datasets, we discovered the Million Song Dataset, which consists of audio features and metadata for contemporary popular music tracks. We originally sought to make a mood-and-demographics-based music recommendation engine, but as we haven’t learned about this technology yet, we decided to have a prediction-based backup plan. Thus, the current plan is to do some modeling and make predictions based on lexical features of song titles.

### Audience
The majority of people listen to music and are also actively searching for new music. Some services like Spotify have recommendation services integrated, but you don’t know what features they include for their recommendations. We’d like to create an application that lets you ask for recommendations based on specific parameters of your choosing, so ideally this would be useful for everyone! If we end up going the prediction route, it’d instead be an application that allows musicians to test out song titles and see if it will help their piece perform commercially and also to see demographics their potential song title would appeal to. 

### Algorithms
The mathematical foundations for this project depend on how difficult a recommendation engine ends up being to implement, in our remaining time frame. Otherwise, with the other prediction project idea, we imagine that a lot of the project will consist of regression analysis based on  lexical features like song title length, average word length in the title, topic coverage, and sentiment analysis. The kind of features we’d consider predicting include: general popularity, genre of song, audio features (instrumentation/tempo/mood), lyrical content, and demographics of its listeners. It’s unclear how much of this information we actually have available to me, as we were unable to successfully download the Million Song Dataset (due to their online data source being down), but these are the features that we’d like to keep in mind for the project.

Some difficulties we imagine facing will include obtaining a lexical analysis of the Million Song Dataset (currently just given a list of titles) and also figuring out a way to establish thresholds for popularity. 

### Interface
From our broad proposal standpoint, we think that a lot of the challenges in this project will come from the web application itself, which we don’t have much experience building. We’d like to create a web app that allows users to input basic demographic information and their current mood. Then, the application will output a list of songs that it thinks would be appropriate based on its recommendation engine. We're not entirely sure how to get this engine hosted online and are also not sure how we would handle user input: for example, if a user inputted a mood that didn’t match any of the moods from our testing data, how would the algorithm respond? Would it be better to allow the user to select from a predetermined list of demographic categories and genres?

### Reference
- [The Million Song Dataset](http://ismir2011.ismir.net/papers/OS6-1.pdf)
- [Real-World Mood-Based Music Recommendations](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/221055652_Real-World_Mood-Based_Music_Recommendation)
- [Implementation and Analysis of Mood-Based Music Recommendation System](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6488291)
- [Mood-based Music Recommendation Player](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6012116/)